The two devolution campaigns, the first in 79, the second in 97,
did you follow those debates on television?
I followed them as best I could.
But, to be quite honest, I had very little interest in the first one.
I didn't think we were ready for it, and so it turned out.
It was an almighty defeat.
I think the majority of the Welsh people felt like I did,
that perhaps the time wasn't ripe.
And it was in 1979, wasn't it?
Callaghan's government.
Well, he was ready to go anyway, everybody knew that.
So I thought, I think there was a bit of a backlash in that,
with unemployment being quite high,
and his government likely to be kicked out if they hadn't already been.
I can't remember what month of the year it was. When was it?
It was March, wasn't it?
He was definitely in power then, wasn't he?
Because the election wasn't until...
I think it was a bit later with Margaret Thatcher.
And I think it was a backlash because his government had sort of pushed the idea,
or presented the idea, offered it.
Most Welsh people decided, no, we're not doing it.
But, of course, when it came to 97, there was a different proposition altogether by then,
because in the meantime, television had played their part in a big way.
There'd been a...
Margaret Thatcher...
had...
united Wales in a sense,
for the wrong reasons perhaps, but united it nevertheless.
And therefore there was a growing feeling that perhaps Wales would be better off on their own,
without the...
I mean, we've had to suffer the English for the last 800 years, haven't we?
And I like your...
If they get a no vote today, it'll carry on for a few... much longer, you know?
Are you able to get home and vote, or what?
Yes.
You are?
Yeah.
Oh, it's open till 10, isn't it?
Open till 10, yeah.
That's right.
Yeah, you've got to go down later.
No, the... I think the...
And I mean...
In 97, they only just scraped through, didn't they?
50% to... 50% point... 50 point something to 49 point something.
And it's strange really, because...
Wales has always been a radical country.
A country of radicals, if you like.
The Chartist Movement, and Quakers, non-conformists, Wesleyans, Methodists, and so forth.
I mean, I'm Annie Bunwir.
My father was a Wesleyan Methodist.
My mother was a Baptist.
Lots of my friends were Quakers.
I mean, America's built on Quakerism, a lot of it.
It started off...
The Mormons were...
...in the same type.
From the same ilk.
a lot of Welsh people were moaned. So I think we were ready for some change and I think
I can't see that the Welsh Assembly has done any harm to the economy, it's done a lot of good.
I see Scotland are following Wales now with free prescriptions.
So they must have done something right. There's always the feeling amongst the Welsh,
amongst the working class, that MPs who've never done a decent day's work in their lives,
I'm quoting other people now, are all for what they can get out of it themselves. Well,
that's unfortunate but it's because of the MP expenses which TV highlighted as well as the
newspapers that has caused people to be angry about things. So as soon as people nowadays like
the Welsh Assembly ministers
put forward an idea, Welsh in particular, they go, what's he saying that for? What are they going
to get out of it? And that's why people are worried, like my wife, what's it going to cost us
if they get a yes vote? But at the same time, is it right that what we want to do in Wales
should be governed by people in England?
What was
the idea?
Oh yeah, Trewerin. Because I can remember Trewerin and Capil Kelyn getting drowned.
And at the time it was evident that all 40-odd Welsh MPs had voted against it
and they were outvoted by their English counterparts because they were in the majority.
I mean what sort of a democracy was that sort of thing, you know?
When Liverpool could have got
their water from Cumbria, the wettest part of the United Kingdom, apart from Wales, and
the irony of it was that once they'd flooded Capil Kelyn to create Trewerin,
there were houses overlooking the reservoir who couldn't get water because Liverpool wouldn't
give supply pipe water to them. And oh my god, you know, if we could cast ourselves adrift,
and float away like Ireland, have a river between us or water between us, we'd be better off I think.